Dear ZHdK Master Design admissions team

My name is Mattia Leonetti, I am 25 years old and want to study game design for my master’s degree. In addition to enjoying playing video games, I have always been interested in analyzing game mechanics, stories and exploring how games can be played. I hosted a speedrunning tournament for “New Super Mario Bros.” for the Nintendo DS with my friends at 11 years old, without knowing that speedrunning was a thing (I won at ca. 45 minutes on the timer). Like many kids I dreamed of making my own games. Now, at 25 years old I would like to pursue that dream.

After completing high school and Swiss civil service, I started my studies by majoring in philosophy and minoring in informatics at UZH. While I learned that pursuing philosophy academically was not the right path for me, those two years taught me to think outside the box and gave me an appreciation for analyzing complex issues thoroughly and accurately. I decided to follow my interest in philosophy in my free time and switched to majoring in Software Systems. Now, I find myself missing engaging with philosophy in a professional manner and hope to incorporate it in future projects – in video games or music.

In my major in software systems, I learned software architecture, computer science and project management. The program has a focus on developing software efficiently in teams, as is the case in industry, and thus differs from classic computer science programs which usually have an academic focus. As part of my studies, I completed two internships at Helbling Technik Wil AG, a product development contractor, where I worked on multiple projects and was given increased responsibility over time. I first worked on a software simulation of a diagnostic device we developed for a customer. Rigorous code review and a structured development process allowed me to become a well-rounded software engineer, and I quickly became a well-integrated part of the team due to my open-minded and friendly attitude. After my first internship I took a part-time position at Helbling, where I maintain the tools I developed and occasionally help out with software projects to this day.

In my second internship, I first designed a test bench for a household appliance that Helbling developed, which allowed me to gain experience with electronic hardware and writing software that interacts with hardware. In the future, I would like to explore video game projects with custom hardware. I believe this makes for a unique experience for the player, and it would be an interesting research project for me. While games like that cannot be distributed digitally, such a project would be well-suited for an art exhibition or an arcade. 

As for my next project at Helbling, I developed an application for taking and managing meeting notes and I was given full responsibility for the project. I completed all necessary steps in the life of a software product: ideation, software concept, requirements definition with stakeholder feedback, iterative engineering, organizing early testing, release, and maintenance. The experience as a project lead has since been helpful in my bachelor’s thesis and will be very valuable in the game design master. Through good project management, many struggles in projects can be avoided – even if a project is self-managed by a single person.

In October 2025, I started work on my bachelor’s thesis which is due in April. I am writing a paper on the usability of applications that are used to configure neuromorphic hardware (those are analog chips that compute using silicon neurons, [cool stuff](https://www.ini.uzh.ch/en/research/groups/ncs/research/Neuromorphic-Processors.html)) at the department of neuroinformatics at UZH. For my thesis I have analyzed issues with previous applications, developed possible solutions for those issues, and am now about to conduct a comparative structured observation study to evaluate my improvements’ effectiveness. I believe that the last six months of reading human-computer interactions literature and designing an application with usability as a focus will prove invaluable as a game designer and that the experience in conducting a rigorous empirical study and literature review will be very helpful for future research projects.

I am confident in my abilities as a software developer and that I could pursue that career path successfully. However, while working as a software developer, I missed the human-centric approach that is present in design. Especially while developing the applications for my bachelor’s thesis, I realized how much I enjoy the process of designing user experiences. From that point on, I was certain that I wanted to pursue a master’s degree in a discipline which borders on software but focuses on good design and human-machine interactions and takes the societal impact of software into account. While I can still become a much better and more specialized software developer and learn more about project management, I am most interested in becoming a better designer. I also want to seek a master’s degree that would open more varied job opportunities, rather than simply higher paying software positions – especially if those jobs allowed me to express myself creatively.

While I work very efficiently on projects at university and in my jobs, structuring my free time to complete projects on my own has been a challenge. That is why, even though I have had fleshed out, attainable ideas for games for years, I do not have any finished games ready to present in my portfolio. I have now realized to realize my dream of making games and pursuing a creative profession, I have to make it my full-time center focus. For my portfolio, I quickly implemented a simple (and very derivative) mobile game idea in the form of an infinite minesweeper game and embedded the game into a fully custom-designed website. Besides working on my bachelor’s thesis and my part-time job, I did not have time to craft a more original work. However, the game and website prove my abilities to quickly and efficiently sketch out game ideas (you can check the git history) and design a user experience and visual look that is coherent with the game’s mechanics and cultural heritage. 

I am confident that I want to become a game developer and aware that it is not an easy industry to get a foothold in. Working on the game and website, I enjoyed myself a lot, and I am sure that applying for game design is the right choice for me. I want to deepen my technical knowledge, learn new tools, especially in 3D design, do in-depth research into game mechanics, make creative work my main focus and most importantly become a better designer. The game design master program matches these wishes perfectly. 
The lateral career move from software to game design uniquely suits me for pairing up with students with a more design-centric formation. I have proven technical, organizational and analytical experience. Combined with my motivation to learn new skills and become a better designer, and my friendly, enthusiastic and good-natured personality, this makes me a perfect fit for the game design master at ZHdK.

