# Project Idea

## Motivation

Video games often incorporate small tricks to make character movement feel fun and responsive as well as making it look realistic. One commonly employed example is mid-air control. Allowing the controlled character or vehicle to shift their movement direction while in the air is unrealistic in almost all cases, many games implement mid-air control to make the game feel responsive. I want to investigate designing a movement system with realistic inertia, while making it fun to play. I am aware that such a movement system could feel "clunky", especially for seasoned players who are used to how movement usually feels in games. Whereas many games use movement as a means to an end, in order to mitigate that potential frustration, I want to place the movement mechanics center stage. If a game is built on the premise that it has an unusual movement system and that all gameplay revolves around mastering that movement, I can reframe the potential frustration to a fun challenge. The final product will be a 3rd person RPG in a low-tech sci-fi setting, and targeted towards adults who enjoy thoughtful stories, unusual gameplay and immersive worlds.

## Gameplay

I intend the core gameplay to consist of fighting robotic enemies. The player character has three combat options: ranged attack in form of a rifle, a melee attack by hitting enemies with the rifle and the "human bullet" option - flying into enemies at high speeds causes damage to both the enemy and the player character. The player character has a shield, in form of an inhibition crystal, which slows anything coming into contact with it, protecting the player character from projectiles or impacts. Once the crystal runs out of charge one more hit kills the player character immediately, further increasing realism. The game is set on a low-gravity planetoid which means that jumping leads to longer airtime than in a game set on earth. The player character has various movement options: The simplest option, walking, is similar to classic 3rd person 3d videogame walking. A slight difference is that I intend walking to be slightly slow, due to the low gravity. If on the ground, the player character can jump relatively high, due to low gravity. While in the air or on the ground, the player character can use the inertial crystal (see Worldbuilding) to accelerate in any desired direction until its energy gauge is depleted and needs to recharge. Using the crystal for acceleration leads to similar movements as with a jetpack, with the difference being that inertia is kept realistic. The character can move forward at very high speeds, jumping off the ground regularly to let the crystal reload. Braking however, takes the same amount as accelerating does. I want the animations to look realistic, e.g. touching the ground while at high speeds should not look like regular walking, but similar to the leg movements a skydiver makes while landing. The player should be able to use the downward force of the crystal to push the player character down, which allows them to run faster, making it work similar to a run button. The main focus of the project will be making the movement system and animations work. The level of complexity of the combat gameplay depends on the timeframe for the project and the speed of progress. I envision a semi-open-world game area, with several hub towns and open plains in between. I want to mention that this is most likely outside the scope of the research project, due to the amount of work needed to finish a fleshed-out RPG, as well as because standard gunplay and RPG world design make for less scientifically interesting research.

## Approach

I must first do research into the history of movement mechanics and programmatic animation and collect any relevant literature. This process will inform the entire game development process and must be done thoroughly. In order to get started on game development, I will set up a project in a 3D game engine and start with the movement mechanics without animations. I envision a lot of time being spent on making the movements feel correct, within my limitations of realism. I then plan to look into how to make animations fit the movement behavior. In the final step, enemies and combat mechanics will be implemented. As mentioned before, completing the full game within a project deadline is unlikely, so I plan the finished artifact of the research project to be a tech-demo of movement and fighting mechanics. The goal would be to take this to a game publisher, or continue working on my own, in order to finish the entirety of the game. If the assignment requires the result to be a finished game, I have other ideas for games that can be finished within a more reasonable timeframe - I chose this one because it has more depth in the dimension of research.

## Worldbuilding

The game is set in a colony on a small planetoid, formerly used to mine raw materials for microchips. After a full-out war between robots and humans all computer technology is forbidden - the only thing that allowed humanity to win over their robotic foes was the discovery of crystals which can be used as shields or to accelerate. The colony, after having lost its use, has been neglected by human authorities.  Thus, it is a brewing ground for separatist movements. In between several settlements across the surface, leftover robots roam the plains, which the layer fights, either while travelling alone, guarding caravans or seeking out former mining or manufacturing plants for salvaging. The main story of the game involves the player managing factions and is themed around colonialism and revolutions. The main questions I want to explore thematically are: Are non-violent revolutions possible, how do you deal with complacency in the face of injustice, how can you get groups that fundamentally disagree to unite for a common cause.
